# Introduction to Java Programming Part 2

## Objectives
- Recap the first session
- Dissecating the Hello World example
- Common mistakes and how to fix them
- Homework exercises
- Guidelines

## Recap the first session
- How does it look like the language spoken by computers?
- What is a programming language?
- What is the difference between a low-level language and a high level language?
- What kind of language is JAVA and why?
- What do you understand by running a JAVA application?
- What is an IDE?
- Why do we need it?

## 1. Dissecating the Hello World example

- Java has a free form layout, meaning that we can use any number of spaces and line breaks to separate words
- We can have as many words as possibile into each line
- For example, our `HelloWorld` example looked like this:
    - ```JAVA
        public class Application {

            public static void main(String[] args) {
                // TODO Auto-generated method stub
                System.out.println("Hello, World");
            }
        }
      ```
- But there is no rule to enforce us to strictly use this layout, we can, for example, write our code in the following format and it will still run:
    - ```JAVA
        public class Application {public static void main(String[] args) {System.out.println("Hello, World");}}
    ```
- Nevertheless, the advantage of using the previous format, is obvious! Our code is much more readable and this is the direction that we should follow

- The outer most part of our hello world application is something called a class:
    - ```JAVA
        public class Application { 
            // code goes here
        }
        ```
    - For now, just ignore the keyword `public`, we will speak about it a later time.
    - Most of your time, while developing JAVA applications, you will create classes.
    - In JAVA, we will definitely have at least one class, the one which will be responsible with running your application.
    - I say at least one because you can have as much code as you want inside this class which will run your program but this is not desirable because the code will be hard to read
    - We will see later, when we'll have the introduction to the Object Oriented paradigm, how can we have multiple classes and why we should.
- Also, it is very important to note that the code coresponding to this class is enclosed by braces: `{}`
- Everything that is inside of these braces is called `the scope` and due to the fact that they are attached to the `Application` class, we can easily say that everything that is inside these braces which open right before the Application word and closes at the end of the file, it is called the `scope of the Application class`

- The next part, is something which is called a comment:
    - ```JAVA
        // TODO Auto-generated method stub
        ```
    - Its content, is not important, it merely says, well this piece is autogenerated by the IDE, feel free to add more to it.
    - A comment is something which is ignored by the compiler. This means that we can type whatever we want, even something which does not adhere to the JAVA language syntax.
    - The purpose of comments is to describe what is that piece of code supposed to do.
    - For example we can have the following comment which explains a bit what does each part of our application do:
        - ```JAVA 
            // This is the class that contains the HelloWorld Java application
            public class Application {
                
                // This is the most important method in every Java application
                public static void main(String[] args) {
                    // TODO Auto-generated method stub
                    System.out.println("Hello, World");
                }
            }
        ```
- There are multiple ways to define a comment:
    - The first one and the one you have seen previously, is called a line comment
        - The line comment starts with a double forward slash and everything which follows it,on the same line, it is igonored by the compiler
    - The next type of comment is called: `multi line comment`
        - This comment can span across multiple lines
        - The compiler will ignore everthing which is enclosed between `/*` and `*/` as in the example below:
        - ```JAVA
            /*
            * This is a multiline type of comment.
            * As you can see, I can have as many lines as I want
            * By using this kind of comment
            */
            public class Application {
                
                /*
                * Of course I can type it wherever I want
                * It will still be ignored
                * By the compiler
                */
                public static void main(String[] args) {
                    /*
                    * I can write a
                    * Multiline comment 
                    * even here
                    */
                    System.out.println("Hello, World");
                }
            }
        ```
    - There is also a third type of comment which is called the documentation comment. It has the same syntax as the the multi line comment but it adds some pieces of information. For now, we can stick with the first two types and we'll come back at this type of comment after we learn more about something called `methods`.

- After we move after the comment generated by our IDE, we reach the most important thing in every JAVA application: `the main method`
    - First of all, it is called main because it is the entry point to your application
        - Whenever someone tries to run your application, the Java Virtual Machine will look for this `main` method
    - You might wonder, well, the idea with main is pretty simple, it is the entrypoint and so on, but what is a method?
    - Well, a method is only a grouping of code. I know that our current method is more complicated because it is also the main method, it is still just a grouping of code, we stack here the code that we want for our application.
    - So when someone says `a java method`, you can imagine a group of lines that contains JAVA code.
    - You can see that also methods have their code enclosed between braces like: `{}`. Similar as for the classes, everthing which is enclosed between the braces that belong to a method, is called `the scope of the method`
## 2. Common mistakes and how to fix them
- Java is `case sensitive`. Not paying attention to this characteristic, it might throw an error


## Homework exercises

## Guidelines
- It is always a great idea to type yourself the code that you are seeing it, even if you really understands what is doing.
- Practice by typing